Fix 'ct' value for kim2020viral (#82)
shedding-hub/shedding-hub: data/kim2020viral/kim2020viral-extraction.md

# Extraction for Kim et al. (2020)

> [Kim et al. (2020)](https://doi.org/10.3346/jkms.2020.35.e86) presents viral load kinetics for the first two confirmed COVID-19 patients with mild to moderate illness in Korea. Swabs, sputum, serum, plasma, urine, and stool samples were collected throughout the course of the illness. Cycle threshold (Ct) values were quantified using rRT-PCR targeting the RdRp and E genes. Data were obtained from Supplementary Table 3, which contains the estimated number of viral copies in respiratory specimens. The swab RdRp estimated viral load was cross-validated with the combined dataset in the supplementary materials of Challenger et al., BMC Medicine (2022) 20:25 (https://doi.org/10.1186/s12916-021-02220-0). The sputum information from Supplementary Table 1, 2, 3 have been formatted into kim2020viral.xlsx file with an additional column to label the specimen type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kim et al. (2020)](https://doi.org/10.3346/jkms.2020.35.e86) presents viral load kinetics for the first two confirmed COVID-19 patients with mild to moderate illness in Korea. Swabs, sputum, serum, plasma, urine, and stool samples were collected throughout the course of the illness. Cycle threshold (Ct) values were quantified using rRT-PCR targeting the RdRp and E genes. Data were obtained from Supplementary Table 3 in Kim et al. (2020), which contains the estimated number of viral copies in respiratory specimens. The swab RdRp estimated viral load was cross-validated with the combined dataset in the supplementary materials of [Challenger et al. (2022)](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12916-021-02220-0). The sputum information from Supplementary Tables 1, 2, and 3 in Kim et al. (2020) have been formatted into the kim2020viral.xlsx file with an additional column to label the specimen type.
```

KimJY2020 = dict(title="Viral Load Kinetics of SARS-CoV-2 Infection in First Two Patients in Korea",
               doi="10.3346/jkms.2020.35.e86",
               description=folded_str('The authors present viral load kinetics for the first two confirmed COVID-19 patients with mild to moderate illness in Korea. Swabs, sputum, serum, plasma, urine, and stool samples were collected throughout the illness. Cycle threshold (Ct) values were quantified using rRT-PCR targeting the RdRp and E genes. Data were obtained from the supplementary material.\n'),

>                analytes=dict(sputum_SARSCoV2_RdRp_VL=dict(description=folded_str("Cycle threshold (Ct) values were quantified using rRT-PCR targeting the RdRp gene in sputum samples. Ct values were then converted into estimated viral copies per mL, with a detection limit of 2,690 copies/mL. The RNA copy number was calculated by the authors using a standard curve derived from Ct values of plasmid DNA, as noted in the supplementary material.\n"),

Reviewer: Correct me if I am wrong, but do the supplementary tables also have the CT values for sputum and swab with target RdRp? Could we also include them as two separate analytes 'sputum_SARSCoV2_RdRp_Ct' and 'swab_SARSCoV2_RdRp_Ct'?

Author: You are right! Let me add sputum_SARSCoV2_RdRp_Ct and swab_SARSCoV2_RdRp_Ct. Thanks!
